---
layout: post 
date: 2011-11-06 23:59:00
title: "Red State"
year: 2011
rating: 0.5
tags_letterboxd: narrative, netflix, streaming, projector, philadelphia, Leah
tags:
  - film
  - review
category: Letterboxd
canonical: https://boxd.it/zVL
---

Let’s get this out of the way: I am not a Kevin Smith fan. He has always seemed more interested in hiring actors to recite his own self-consciously profane monologues than in creating living, breathing characters, and the results are reliably tedious.

For the most part, though, <cite>Red State</cite> avoids Smith’s usual pitfalls and just lets Michael Parks work his villainous magic. Parks plays a fringe fundamentalist Christian preacher in the mold of Fred Phelps who leads a congregation with a divine calling to punish the wicked. Things get sticky when the group’s abduction of some local teens goes awry, and what begins as a fairly taut horror premise eventually becomes a mannered action thriller. Alas, by the time the climax arrives, it’s pretty clear Smith doesn’t know how to resolve it, and thus, what had for a moment promised to be a rewarding film unravels quickly. After eighty minutes of frothy biblical hatred in a truly inspired performance from Parks, Smith can’t wait to get back to his own voice and do some ham-fisted proselytizing of his own. The ensuing epilogue – some hokey narrative fast-forward mixed with a bizarre bit of Patriot Act propaganda – seems to be constructed for the sake of anyone who wasn’t able to hear Smith explain himself in plain language at a post-screening Q&A. It’s an unforgivably cheap finish that ultimately ruins the whole experience.